WORK_LOG.md, before:

Name: Eisha Yadav

| Date   |     Time      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Update |
|:-------|:-------------:|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| Aug 21 | 9:45-10:50 am |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I started working with peers during class to understand the problems at hand. We were able to deciper a certain pattern for the first cipher with characters, and believe that most letters are shifted by 9 in the alphabet (similar to a ceaser cipher). However, the phrase doesn't work correctly yet, so when I work on this later I will begin by testing out alternative patters to get the phrase to work! I have a hunch that like every nth letter is wrong/doesn't follow the pattern, but I am not sure. |
| Aug 21 | 3:55-4:10 pm  |                                                                                                                                               I began by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 working on the initial cipher, and spent around 30 minutes remembering how Java works (i spend a lot of summer coding in python..) and then began by implementing the simple shift by 9 just to visualize how the final text would look. After getting the text beginning with "'twas brillig.." again.. i decided to google the word brillig to see what it might mean to see if i could get some meaning out of it. Then i discovered that it is part of a poem "Jabber-wocky" by Lewis Caroll and that we spent a majority of class trying to correct a poem that was aldready right... After learning that, i moved on. The response is all lowercase, which is something i will fix in the future, after I begin work on the numbers! |
| Aug 21 | 4:10-4:25 pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I am now moving on to the second puzzle, with the numbers, and began my work on paper to try to think of potential solutions. I am currently thinking of three main ideas (each number is an ascii value, and if it isn't in the correct range, its either added/subtracted from the min max ascii values, OR each number in the list (if you use the spaces as dividers in the list) if summed and added to 96 (min Ascii) is a letter [basically letter num in the alphabet], OR the easiest and least complex where each val is literally just mapped to a corresponding ascii character.. ) [Time Skip While I work..] Lucky for me, it was the easy solution, so i've finished this cipher as well, and am starting to see a theme of nonsensical answers.. |
| Aug 21 | 4:25-4:40 pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I've learnt my lesson from the past two ciphers, and am not overcomplicating this and am following the obvious(similar pattern). Here, the 0's and 1's likely represent binary, and following the trend of converting everything to chars, i will convert the binary to chars. Since one char is 8 bits, i will use sections of 8 binary values, and convert those sections to individual chars. [Time skip] My assumptions were correct! I also feel like i know the overall final answer.. and it might have to do with the author of these poems.. |
| Aug 21 | 4:40-5:20 pm  | I am now onto the final puzzle, and while the symbols are weird, i am confident that it will follow a similar pattern to the previous problems, where there is some shift, and each symbol is converted to a char. I also (since this is a coding assignment..) doubt it is brute force, where each symbol corresponds to a meaning based on its image, because the code for that would just be long series of if/else statements or key mapping or something that isn't a shift and is hardcoded, which i severley doubt. Hence, im starting by finding all possible numerical/orders of these emojis. [Time Skip] This was actually less complex than I thought (again..). All that needed to be done was just convert the chars directly to their numerical value (later found to be unicode..) and then found the minimum value, and shifted everything down based off the minimum (which i thought to use because the numbers were so big..). Then, I realized that most of the letters were correct.. but not the capitals or the spaces, or commas or hyphens. So i converted all of the correct uppercase to lowercase, and then calculated the numerical difference between the correct value for the capital "L" from Life [that i knew was correct after googling all Carroll poems] and the "," that the program was printing, and shifted all of the special characters by that value. |


To add a new row to the table, click into a cell and then hit shift-enter.

Commit message:

Updated Challenge 4 and began attempting Challenge 5.

WORK_LOG.md, after:

Name: Eisha Yadav

| Date   |     Time      |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Update |
|:-------|:-------------:|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|
| Aug 21 | 9:45-10:50 am |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                I started working with peers during class to understand the problems at hand. We were able to deciper a certain pattern for the first cipher with characters, and believe that most letters are shifted by 9 in the alphabet (similar to a ceaser cipher). However, the phrase doesn't work correctly yet, so when I work on this later I will begin by testing out alternative patters to get the phrase to work! I have a hunch that like every nth letter is wrong/doesn't follow the pattern, but I am not sure. |
| Aug 21 | 3:55-4:10 pm  |                                                                                                                                               I began by                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 working on the initial cipher, and spent around 30 minutes remembering how Java works (i spend a lot of summer coding in python..) and then began by implementing the simple shift by 9 just to visualize how the final text would look. After getting the text beginning with "'twas brillig.." again.. i decided to google the word brillig to see what it might mean to see if i could get some meaning out of it. Then i discovered that it is part of a poem "Jabber-wocky" by Lewis Caroll and that we spent a majority of class trying to correct a poem that was aldready right... After learning that, i moved on. The response is all lowercase, which is something i will fix in the future, after I begin work on the numbers! |
| Aug 21 | 4:10-4:25 pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I am now moving on to the second puzzle, with the numbers, and began my work on paper to try to think of potential solutions. I am currently thinking of three main ideas (each number is an ascii value, and if it isn't in the correct range, its either added/subtracted from the min max ascii values, OR each number in the list (if you use the spaces as dividers in the list) if summed and added to 96 (min Ascii) is a letter [basically letter num in the alphabet], OR the easiest and least complex where each val is literally just mapped to a corresponding ascii character.. ) [Time Skip While I work..] Lucky for me, it was the easy solution, so i've finished this cipher as well, and am starting to see a theme of nonsensical answers.. |
| Aug 21 | 4:25-4:40 pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               I've learnt my lesson from the past two ciphers, and am not overcomplicating this and am following the obvious(similar pattern). Here, the 0's and 1's likely represent binary, and following the trend of converting everything to chars, i will convert the binary to chars. Since one char is 8 bits, i will use sections of 8 binary values, and convert those sections to individual chars. [Time skip] My assumptions were correct! I also feel like i know the overall final answer.. and it might have to do with the author of these poems.. |
| Aug 21 | 4:40-5:20 pm  | I am now onto the final puzzle, and while the symbols are weird, i am confident that it will follow a similar pattern to the previous problems, where there is some shift, and each symbol is converted to a char. I also (since this is a coding assignment..) doubt it is brute force, where each symbol corresponds to a meaning based on its image, because the code for that would just be long series of if/else statements or key mapping or something that isn't a shift and is hardcoded, which i severley doubt. Hence, im starting by finding all possible numerical/orders of these emojis. [Time Skip] This was actually less complex than I thought (again..). All that needed to be done was just convert the chars directly to their numerical value (later found to be unicode..) and then found the minimum value, and shifted everything down based off the minimum (which i thought to use because the numbers were so big..). Then, I realized that most of the letters were correct.. but not the capitals or the spaces, or commas or hyphens. So i converted all of the correct uppercase to lowercase, and then calculated the numerical difference between the correct value for the capital "L" from Life [that i knew was correct after googling all Carroll poems] and the "," that the program was printing, and shifted all of the special characters by that value. |
| Aug 27 | 5:15-5:30 pm  |                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           I began by looking over my old code- and realizing that my decode 4 is unneccesarily complex, mainly because i worked on solving it while coding, so i didn't get rid of a lot of the unneccesary code, so i updated it to make it a little more succinct. |


To add a new row to the table, click into a cell and then hit shift-enter.
